# 12/12/2018 - API Days

## The state of GraphQL

Jonathan Jalouzot - @captainjojo42

Eleven Labs

---

Query language created by Facebook in 2012. It's a specification, not an implementation.

---
---

## GraphQL? It's the new REST

Loren Sands Ramshaw - @lorendsr

Parlay

---

### Why?

In REST era, we have to look at documentations to discover what we can do with an API / server.

We may need to make multiple requests to get all the informations we need (users, comment, post, ...). Because in pure REST, we have access to a single resource per request.

So, we end up creating dedicated endpoints to have grouped resources (post & author, post & author & comments). Similar queries, packaged differently.

### What?

GraphQL enable us to discover the API, to know which data we can access.

There is only one endpoint. All the queries are in the body of a POST request.

### Query string

GraphQL playground, created by Prisma can help experiment with a GraphQL API and discover what it can do.

The query string is like a json object, with only the keys, without the values.

Some queries can take arguments (orderBy, ...)

To describe what we want to fetch from arrays of objects, we can specify nested queries.

```
{
  reviews(orderBy: date) {
    author
  }
}
```

### Benefits

- No more endpoints sprawl : the logic to fetch the data from the view point of the API is just done once
- Query consolidation
- Flexible, explicit queries
- Type-safe, self-documenting API : enable great tooling (devtools for the client, auto-suggest in IDE, ...)
- Static query analysis : Be sure the the query is still valid
- Less versioning --> (TODO : Didn't get everything)


### Client library

- Typing
- View layer integration : declarative instead of imperative
- Caching
- DevTools

---
---

## GraphQL at Github : Building a platform for everyone

Nicholas Van Wiggeren - @nickvanwig

Github

---

### History

Github has a public API for a decade.

- March 2008 : REST API v1
- April 2009 : REST API v2
- April 2011 : REST API v3 : Big change, dropped YML and XML, JSON only
- May 2017 : API v4


### REST vs GraphQL

REST API v3 : A repository

With a simple request to repository resource, we get a lot of data and hypermedia links.


APIs are tradeoffs :
- How much performance
- How much abstraction
- ...

GraphQL allows for different tradeoffs.

GraphQL does not take away from REST.

### Github and GraphQL : Brief timeline

- March 2016 : First GrahpQL POC
- September 2016 : GraphQL Early access
- May 2017 : GraphQL API generally available

### In practice

The obvious advantage is to get a precise property of a resource.

A more complex advantage is that we can create complex queries, which would have involved multiple REST requests and transformations.

#### Example :

kennytm/borsholder :

A Github dashboard which consists of only one GraphQL query.


GitHawk


---

Public GraphQL is only part of it.

GraphQL helps bring our customers closer.

GraphQL-driver development can lead to a better platform.

#### Where does Github use GraphQL today?

- GraphQL powers REST v3
- github.com
- GraphQL

---

 Over 500M GraphQL requests per day.

190+ contributors to our GraphQL Schemas.

GraphQL was not an easy shift, and we're not finished.

"GraphQL-izing" an existing codebase is difficult.

Building for multiple consumers is challenging : public vs private data.

Rest has a lot of tooling that GraphQL doesn't have yet.

### Interested? SOme advice

- Establish best practices early (Github Style guide, ...)
  - GraphQL Doctor
- Focus on the developer experience
- Tooling is important
  - Breaking change tools + policy : https://developers.github.com/v4/breaking_changes
  - Tracking API changes
  - Preview periods
  - GraphQL Explorer
  - Leveraging GraphQL's strengths via metrics : we can see which data is often accessed etc...
- Performance --> Is there any way to prevent users from making heavy requests
- Interoperability
  - Node IDs in REST

### Moving forward

---
---

## A practical introduction to GraphQL server development

Johannes Schickling - @schickling

Prisma

---

Prisma tools :
- Prisma client
- Primsa migrate
- Prisma admin

---

### GraphQL server development

How GraphQL servers work :
- HTTP server
- GraphQL Execution engine : implementation of GraphQL
- Schema & resolvers : little functions that the engine calls to retrive data.

How to build a GraphQL server :
- Pick a GraphQL server framework
- Main task: define and implement schema

What's a GraphQL schema?
- Defines the structure of your GraphQL API (What can I query for?)
- Foundation of resolver functions
- Intuitive representation as GraphQL SDL
- Defined programmatically or declaratively

History of GraphQL servers :
- 2015 : Graphql released with graphql.js : very verbose but provided the base for what followed
- 2016 : Schema-first with graphql-tools
- 2017/2018 : More schema-first workarounds
- 2018+ : Resolver-first approach

Schema-first : Handwritten expressive schema as "contract" for resolvers.

Schema-first comes with other problems :
- Inconsistencies between SDL and Resolvers
- How to deal with large schemas?
- No import system
- No code reuse
- No oooling / IDE support

@freiksenet

Resolver-first : Schema derived from language type-system or annotations.

---

### Demo

Used libraries :
- Graphl-yoga : 
- Nexus : 

In resolver functions, ctx (context) is the global data.

We also need to create a resolver function to handle relations between two entities.

---

### Nexus

It's a type-safe, resolver-first GraphQL schema framework for Typescrip / Javascript/..

Features of Nexus :
- Smart schema-building (i.e. no circular dependencies)
- Full type-safety in TypeScript & JavaScript
- Enables powerful module & plugin system

Schema building with Nexus :
- Concise & intuitive API
- Type references expressed as type-safe strings ("literals")
- Supports custom scalars, interfaces, unions & mixins

Type-safety in Nexus :
- Provides predictability and extends GraphQL's type system
- Speeds up development (even in prototyping system)
- Based on built-in, self-updating type generation (disabled in prod)
- Type-safe "areas" :
  - Resolvers
  - Type <> Model mapping
  - Nexus API

End-to-end type safety :

Map safely from one system/language into another. Ideally from row in database up to props un React component.

--> Use code-generation for that

Why type-safe DB access?
- Removes one of the most common causes of downtime
- Fixes biggest bottleneck : API <> DB mapping
- Makes most DB integration tests obsolete

Access any DB from any language with Prisma.

How prisma works :
- Connect database
- Introspect schema
- Generate client library
- Start building

---

### Key takeaways

- Schema-first vs resolver-first
- Nexus : Resolver-first GraphQL framework
- Type-safe DB access

GraphQL conf Berlin 2019 - June 20-21

---
---

## So happy together, GraphQL meets the headless CMS

Jesse Martin - @motleydev

GraphCMS : developer-friendly CMS based on GraphQL

---

### The promise of headless CMS

Headless = H"API"NESS

To support every platform and framework that you need to support or will need to support. Start today, scale tomorrow.


Three relevant promises of headless :
- Any platform. Any framework
- Your platforms. Your frameworks.
- Ready to start. Ready to scale.

Goal : Structured data --> beautiful experiences

Headless CMS have "Just enough opinion".

Content isn't kin. Content is congress.

Content structures need to be able to change.

### The promise of GraphQL

Three relevant promises of GraphQL :
- Great for dynamic project scope
- Amazing developer experience
- Turbo-charge content discovery

---

Traditional WYSYWIG is focused on the web experience.

If we want ot have a centralized content adapted for multiple devices / uses, we should manage content, not visual displays.

GraphQL concepts :
- Fragments
- Aliases

---
---

## Not sold yet: a humble tail from skeptic to enthusiast

Garrett Heinlen - @gogogarrett

Netflix

---

GraphQL API design - book

Simple vs Complex - Talk

Microservices : Optimize for independent teams.

---
---

## 0 to 60 with AWS AppSync : Rapid development techniques for APIs

Sébastien Stormacq - @sebsto

AWS

---

Launched 1 year ago.

### What is AppSync?

- A managed serverless GraphQL service.
- Connect to data sources in your account
- Provides a client SDK (library) which : Add data sync, real-time and offline capabilities
- GraphQL facade for any AWS service
- Conflict detection and resolution in the cloud
- Enterprise security features (IAM, Cognito, API Keys)

### GraphQL operations

- Queries : read data
- Mutations : write data
- Subscriptions : listen for data

Subscriptions use MQTT.

### Is REST dead then?

Use REST when :
- When you leverage HTTP (caching, content types, hypermedia (HATEOAS))
- For resources (Amazon S3)

Use GraphQL when :
- Data drives UI (structured data, query-driver)
- Client-driven development

### Appsync data sources

Where AppSync will fetch data (ElasticSearch, DynamoDB, Lambda, Rest endpoint, Cognito).

### AppSync resolvers

Template written in Apache Velocity.

### Amplify

Toolchain for developers.

Can generate front-end code to handle the GraphQL API.

---
---

## Secure & Manage APIs with GraphQL

Ozair Sheikh - @ozairs

IBM

---

### API history 101

Do we really need GraphQL?

Technology is always providing developers new solutions to existing problems.

Lets step back and understand how we got here.

#### API 1.0 aka SOA

- API interface represent the "contract" (ie WSDL) by the API provider.
- API provider : exposes contract to API consumer
- API consumer : tries to consume service based on "contract"

API provider controls the service interface. It's his interface, his contract.

#### API 2.0 aka REST

- API interface is represented by modern API contract (ie OpenAPI)
- API provider : exposes RESTful interface
- API consumer : self-service discovery via developer portals & simplified consumption

Better user experience for consumers : developer portals, we can try the API, ...

#### API 3.0 aka GraphQL

- Query language and implementation paradigm for data-centric APIs
- API consumer define the data they need (and nothing more)
- API provider : Handles complexity of obtaining data from backend systems

API consumer : maintains control over the data independant of the data structure within backend systems.

--> Are we giving too much control to the developers?

### GraphQL vs REST

In REST APIs, profiles, or resource access rules are defined for endpoints.

In GraphQL, profiles, or resource access rules depend on the query.

### GrapgQL endpoints

Single GraphQL transaction may invoke multiple backends.

### Understanding queries

- What we can learn from other query languages (ie SQL)
- How can a "bad query" from an API consumer overwhelm backend systems
- Bad queries can be malicious (ie SQL injection) or unintentional (bad programming)

### Throrrling & rate limits

- Throttling : Protect backends when system usage spike
- Single transaction can trigger multipe nested backend calls on GraphQL server
- Manage transacation calls based on backend service calls to reflect compute time
- Rate limits : Consumer X is allowed access to Y transactions

### API management of GraphQL

- Threat protection
- Rate limit

The gateway need to work with the GraphQL server. To handle the security.

The best practice is to separate the security part (into the gateway) from the GraphQL server.

We can protect with different criterias :
- Max nesting
- Type counts
- Max complexity

#### Threat protection

- Detect and reject requests with complex nesting
- Pre-calculate load to determine if query will overwhelm backends
- Github GraphQL API uses a point system to individually calculate cost for different query parameters.

#### API plans

Basic to premium plan :
- REST
- Kafka
- GraphQL

GraphQL is a premium service because it provides a better user experience for the API consumer. We can treat it like that and price it better.

And even inside GraphQL usage, we can have multiple tiers, with different limitations (nesting, complexity, ...).

### Summary

- GraphQL enables API consumer to easily retrieve data from data-intensive services
- GraphQL management requires insight into the impact of a query on backend systems
- API management of GraphQL APIs enables differentiated API plans & new threat protection policies


---
---

## Improving the Github developer experience with GraphQL / Sampling GraphQL

Brian Douglas - @bdougieYO

Github

---

Hip-hop is sampled Disco

Grand master flash & The furious five

Rap became social commentary --> Gangsta rap (N.W.A. && Public Enemy)

"2 of amerikaz most wanted" 2 pac --> 1996

Github chose GraphQL to provide more flexibility for our integrators.

Improved experience :
- Integrators
- FLexibility

Github is a collaboration platform.

We provide enough features and get out of the way of the developer.

Better hooks

Puff Daddy --> The police - Every breath you take


2016 : Github Sampled GraphQL

JaMstack Radio podcast #5 --> GraphQL at github

2017 : Github publicly launched GraphQL

Trap music :
- Gucci Mane
- Damso
- Booba

Github Apps

ProBot : automate workflows

OctoKit

The GraphQL API provides opportunity to define interactions based on solutions and not endpoints.

GraphQL-doctor

---
---

## Delivering faster with GraphQL and Strapi

Pierre Burgy

Strapi

---

### How it works?

Decrease data response :
- With a better network, but we can't manage that
- Decrease payload

---
---

## Beyond static with Gatsby & GraphQL

Jason Lengstorf - @jlengstorf

Gatsby

Slides : http://git.io/beyond-static

---

### The future is "content mesh"

Traditional monolithic CMS are dying

This is amazing :
- Manage data using purpose-built tools
- Load data from anywhere using APIs
- Build custom UIs that combine multiple data sources

This is terrible :
- Atrocious performance pitfalls
- Complex business logic to combine data sources
- UIs can become tightly couplet to back-ends
- State management leads to nightmarish complexity

Also : Async is hard

How to tame the content mesh?
- Centralize data access with GraphQL
- Serve only optimized static assets

### Centralize data with GraphQL
- Better explorability
- Single source of truth
- More scalable & team-friendly
- Consistent, shareable dev workflow

### Go static for everything
- Blazing fast performance
- Simpler deployment flow
- Reduced DevOps overhead

### How this works in Gatsby?
- Node APIs to load any data source into GraphQL
- "Early bind" data at build time
- Generate static assets
- Automate performance tuning
- Deploy to a CDN (e.g. Netlify)
- Rehydrate to a React App in the browser

Make the right thing the easy thing.


### But... My site has dynamic data.

Static assets !== Static Apps

React Apps are dynamic.

Gatsby sites are React apps.

You should use GraphQL for everything and serve your entire app as static assets.

---
---

## 3 factor architectures : Realtime GraphQL + Async serverless

Patrick Aljord - @patcito

---

### What is 3factor architecture?

An architecture for building applications that will allow for:
- Building and iterating quickly
- Be highly scalable (and economical) without requiring dev-ops
- Be resilient to failures without extra effort

Hasura : real-time  GraphQL framework?

Solutions:
- Building and iterating quickly : GraphQL
- Be highly scalable : Serverless
- Be resilient : Event-sourcing


---
---

## My questions around GraphQL

### How is the cache invalidation handled by frontend libraries like Apollo?

The data is changed whenever another query changes it.

Otherwise we can set a polling or make a subscription with a websocket.

---

### Is there any way to prevent the users to make too heavy requests?

https://blog.apollographql.com/securing-your-graphql-api-from-malicious-queries-16130a324a6b
- https://github.com/stems/graphql-depth-limit
- https://github.com/joonhocho/graphql-input-number
- https://github.com/4Catalyzer/graphql-validation-complexity
- https://github.com/pa-bru/graphql-cost-analysis


---

### Does frontend libraries like Apollo batch GraphQL queries? If they're dispatched between different components for example.

https://blog.apollographql.com/batching-client-graphql-queries-a685f5bcd41b

---

### Does each resolver ends up making a request to the database? If it's the case, how can we batch them?

https://stackoverflow.com/questions/53183836/graphql-number-of-requests-in-this-schema

https://github.com/facebook/dataloader

https://graphql.org/learn/execution/

---

### How do we handle versioning?


---

### How is the authentication handled in GraphQL?


---

### How are errors returned to the frontend? Any conventions around that?


---

### How can we handle transactions?


---
---

## General resources / tools around GraphQL

https://github.com/pa-bru/graphql-cost-analysis

https://blog.apollographql.com/highlights-from-graphql-summit-2018-30a766291691

https://summit.graphql.com/

https://github.com/facebook/dataloader

https://github.com/chentsulin/awesome-graphql
