# 11/12/2018 - API Days

## Harmony in API design

Jakub Nesetril - @jakubnesetril

VP Product Development

Oracle

---

Founder of Apiary - A product to help design, document APIs, ...

There is no golden standard to how to create an API.

What's an API?

Definition of interface : A device or program enabling a user to communicate to a computer.

API is UI to Data / Service

It's subjective, has emotions and  is culturally dependant (Java developers vs Javascript developers).

Hackathons are equivalent of user studies for APIs.

Other definition of interface : A point where two systems, subjects, organisations, ... Meet and interact.

There are two groups involved :
- Provider
- Consumer

We may think that both are developers and if I create an API that I like, others should like it also.
But we don't have the same concerns, same way to think :

Provider thinks about :
- Validation
- Uptime
- Maintenance
- Caching
- Versioning
- Security

Consumer thinks about :
- Latency
- Can it be done
- TTFHW
- Debugging
- Example
- Support

We need to have user empathy.

### Examples

#### Stripe

Stripe was the first one to present the API documention with three column layouts :
- Ressources / routes
- Human-friendly explanation
- Request example

This visual design works because the API is "simple".
The naming is also clear and simple.

---

#### AWS

AWS' documentation and examples are not clear nor simple.

That's because they're not in a business of communicating "simple". But into communicating "scalable" and "huge".

Like flyers of local food shops that looks crappy on purpose, to "look" cheap.

---

(API) Design = User empathy

---
---

## Async API

Fran Mendez - @fmvilas

---

Slides : https://speakerdeck.com/fmvilas/the-asyncapi-specification-nordic-apis-2018

https://www.asyncapi.com/

https://github.com/asyncapi/asyncapi

Slack group : https://t.co/P3mExnoezS

---

AsyncAPI is Swagger for messaging.

When using RabbitMQ, sockets or Kafka we often see an explosion of "topics". The biggest problem is that the number of topics is unknown.

Due to that, different teams ends up building the same event without knowing it was already done.

MQTT is a lightweight messaging protocol, often used with IOT products. Mostly to avoid draining their batteries by polling data.

Async API is a specification. With it you can describe :
- Event-driven microservices
- IoT APIs
- Streaming APIs

It doesn't enforce any particular protocol.

It can helps to generate documentation or code.

### Why?

#### Language

It's a basic pillar of communication. It defines how we communicate.

It's a contract with a common language.

#### Human / machine

Machine readable but also simple to understand for humans

#### API lifecycle

- Design
- Documentation
- Code generation
- Testing
- API management
- Tooling

#### Community-driven

Open-source and open-source for ever.

#### Tooling & products

http://editor.asyncapi.org/

---
---

## Autonomous API - Next chapter in APIs

Zdenek Nemec - @zdne

---

APIs history is composed of multiple chapters. Each chapter has its own architectural paradigm.

### Customer-specific APIs

Large organisations embracing IT

SOAP, EDI, FTP, ESB : one-to-one, point-to-point

API providers face issues with size complexity issues.

New API consumers find the apis too Complex.

### Generic APIs

Ubiquitous internet & software development (2005 - 2018+)

one-to-many

so-called-REST, later also GraphQL

API providers are facing complexity.

New consumers find complex and costly to integrate multiple APIs (?)

### Harmonized APIs

Clients consuming multiple APIs

Microservices, forming API landscapes (2017+)

API landscapes : APIs are no longer in silos

If I am building an e-shop, do I want to integrate with 400 logistics providers?


Cross-domain landscapes

Example : MyStay

Complexity is just increasing with IoT.

We are moving from one-to-many to many-to-many.

Standardisation, governance, normalization.

Wrapper APIs.

### Complexity

- Task-structure complexity
- Unpredictability
- Size complexity
- Chaotic complexity
- Algorithmic complexity

### Solutions

- Hire more people : Role of human in APIs (mechanical turk)
- Standardisation : Harmonized APIs (design, development, lifecycle)
- Apply massive automation : Automated contract-driven api... (?)
- Autonomous API : Is the solution to the difficulty of managing ...

Maching-to-machine APIs, self-driving, no human intervention (2020+)

Design-time knowledge & Runtime knowledge.

---

### Levels of autonomy
Level 0 : Brittle system
Level 1 : Documented brittle system
Level 2 : Automated system
Level 3 : Decoupled automated system
Level 4 : Autonomous system

---

Increasing demand + Evolving demand + Increasing problems

---
---

## Balancing your latency budget : on the future of applications at the edge

Ori Pekelman

CPO@Platform.sh

---

A model of latency will make you money.

What is latency?

Latency is non-productive time.

Whatever useful you do is between the latencies.

You can't beat physics, but you can take it into account.

Paris is at 130ms TimeToFirstByte from San Francisco.

API CALL > Edge > System boundary (LB) > API > System doing something useful


Stuff that goes in latency budget :
- Physics
- Robustness

Postulates :
- Writes are more valuable than reads
- Some writes change the world and the world is slow
- Some data must stay cohesive

Yes is quick when yes is maybe.

202 is "non-commital".


Latency is part of user-centric API Design.

Project to the edge. Use event streams for responses. Slow is valuable.

---

TODO : complete

---
---

## On the sociability of APIs

Jordi Fernandez

Adidas

---

An hamburger story

How you productize an asset can multiply the value of the asset.

---

Edsac story

First notion of API appeared in 1968.

---

Kernel story

---

People story

Peopleware book

Most important problems of tech projects are socialogical not technological.

---

Design Stamina hypothesis

---

TODO : complete

---
---

## Mercure

Kevin Dunglas - @dunglas

Les-Tilleuls.coop

---

### Why do we need to push data to clients?
- Push notifications
- Synchronize all connected devices in real-time
- Notify users when an async task has finished
- Collaborative editing (Google Drive-like)

Alternative to Pusher, Websocket and StreamData.

### The protocol

- Full-duplex
- Built on top of SSEs and HTTP (POST)
- Plays well with tech not supporting persistent connections (serverless, PHP, ...)
- Authorization mechanism (private updates)
- Built-in reconnection support
- Auto-discoverable
- Encryption

### Why SSE?

- Leverage HTTP2 (websocket don't)
- High-level: buil-in
  - re-connection
  - state reconciliation
- Native support in modern browsers
- Build on top of http
  - easy to implement
  - Pass through all firewalls
- Connection-less push proxies (mobile)

### MercUre & HTTP/2 multiplexing

Narayan Prusty : What is multiplexing in HTTP/2

### Reference implementation

- Implements 100% of the Mercure protocol
- Fast, written in go
- Works everywhere : static binaries and Docket
- Automatic HTTP/2 and HTTPS
- CORS support and CSRF protection
- ?
- Open source

### Discovery mechanism

Weblinking RFC.

---
---

## Event-driven APIs

Eric Horesnyi

Streamdata.io

---

### Why?

Real-time is real money. In trading, online banking, Retail, Logistics, ...

Polling madness : If we don't provide real-time / streaming data, clients will tend to poll data.

5 cents to 50 cents per million calls.

---

### Protocols

- AMQP : consume data
- Kafka : message bus, help manage strains & data as upstream as possible. And create action as stream.
- SSE
- Webhook
- Websocket

---

### Frontends react to events

Observable / bus

### Languages are reactive


### No tables, just streams

---

TODO : complete

---
---